HubSpot have lost over 7 million organic
visitors per month to their blog since
March
2024 that's around a 80%
[Music]
dip I'm going to share some of reasons I
believe why it's happened and also what
your B2B or SAS company can learn from
this to improve its SEO game Let's dive
straight in if you are looking if you're
watching the videos or post are
listening you can see this massive chart
drop since March 2024 to the traffic so
looking at some of their top keywords
top performing pages that have tanked
there are things like famous sales
quotes cover letter examples resignation
letter examples small business ideas
what is your greatness weakness now
HubSpot are a CRM provider for snbs
small to medium businesses and a bit
above and beyond they're one of the
teams that pretty much coined content
marketing and inbound marketing they're
one of the real winners back in the day
when it comes to SEO so this is a huge
thing that they've lost so much traffic
why do I think it was well all these
queries like famous sales quotes it's
not relevant to their product it's not
relevant to their SAS to their CRM
solution to that inbound marketing
software if I'm a prospect and I'm
searching for famous sales quotes
probably just doing it for fun maybe for
an assignment to educate myself or
similar I'm not doing it because I'm in
market for software especially not CRM
so these are very top funnel queries
that informational based and they're not
relevant directly to hubspot's Niche so
I believe as a result because HubSpot
have got so much masses and massive
content that's been driving this
millions of traffic over the last few
years I think Google have cracked down
on when you publish content that's
outside your Niche and you're doing it
purely for traffic so I believe they've
got caught up in what I call the traffic
trap going for traffic at all costs and
as a result they've been punished
so it's not going to be a massive issue
for Hub sport although it's a huge loss
they've got a massive brand they're
basically a huge media brand they're
doing so much more outside of SEO
they've got podcast Network they've got
so much paid paid media they've built up
such a brand through that inbound events
and all sorts so they're not just
relying on SEO they're a huge household
name when it comes to crms and they've
got the resources to make it make up for
this weak spot and get it back on track
now what can your B2B or SAS company
learn from this well I always encourage
B2B or SAS companies to take the
opposite approach so they've gone for
traffic or Tru traffic or costs going
for informational based keywords that
yield a lot of traffic instead I would
flip that on its head and I would go for
bottom of funnel keywords what is a
prospect what's a dream client most
likely to search when they need our
offer our solution now so are they
searching directly for our category are
they searching for our type of software
or our service are they comparing
comping us to Alternative Solutions or
are they searching for a crisen specific
problem that we solve those kind of
things are way more likely to drive
leads sales calls or demos so starting
with those bottom of funnel High intent
queries as opposed to informational
based queries that as we've seen are
getting phased out especially with the
introduction of Google AI overviews so
when you search for some queries at the
top of the fold Google gives an instant
result instead of having to click
through to a web page so as a practical
example
if you were in The Proposal software
space if you were a sass that sold
proposal software I'd encourage you to
make an exhausted list of your money
keywords AKA bottom of funnel longtail
queries that a prospect's going to
search when they have a high level of
intent to sign up or take a demo or book
a cool around your offer so that might
be things like proposal software or
proposal tools or if it was offer plus
industry that might be proposal software
for sales or proposal software for
fintech teams or another one that works
really well in B2B in SAS is going after
competitors so like competitor
Alternatives or competitor pricing or
competitor review so in the software
space for proposals that might be
pandadoc Alternatives or proposify
Alternatives or quiller Alternatives or
also versus based keywords so pandadoc
versus quiller where you position
yourself as a third
choice or you can go down the problem
route a howto based keywords but not
just howto fluffy keywords that are
likely to be wiped out by AI but spe
specific and crisp ones that are
relevant to your prospect's jobs to be
done or problems like in The Proposal
software space how to write proposals
that convert or how to create
interactive proposals or how to close
more sales quotes or
deals that kind of stuff or it could be
relevant to how someone's getting the
job done today like how to write a sales
proposal within Google Sheets or Google
Docs or something like that and then you
introduce Your solution as the
painkiller and kind of say you could do
it this way but it's going to take a lot
more time a lot more effort it's going
to be a lot more stressful or you could
take a free sign up of our tool for 30
days and 10x your productivity make it a
lot easier Etc so the point I'm getting
at is although HubSpot have had this
massive tank although HubSpot have lost
7 million monthly organic visits well
above that now they'll be able to
recover they've got the huge
infrastructure they've got so much brand
so much more outside of SEO now that
they'll be able to sort that out you as
a B2B or SAS as a smaller company if you
go get caught in the traffic trap and
you're going for top funnel
informational based keywords only that's
likely to get wiped out by AI searches
or similar instead focus on those crisp
and specific bottom of funnel queries
that someone's going to search right now
when they need your software when they
need your service when they need your
offer or they have a crisp and specific
problem that you solve and then look to
rank with best-in-class content that
it's way more informative helpful has
that sub subject matter expertise
positions your offer as the solution and
makes it easy for folks with clear cool
to action social proof to take that next
step hope that helps if you want more
then you can check out my 90 days to
revenue mini guide for B2B or SAS
companies got 15 pages of actional
tactics that you can put into play today
just head over to Breaking bb.com hit
that newsletter tab that's breaking
bb.com hit that newsletter Tab and you
can download it straight away or if you
want to grab a call we can discuss if we
can scale your company with SEO and
start DR ramping up demos and leads
catch a soon
[Music]